(birds chirping)
(laughs softly)
Wow, I'm finally a chunnin now.
(door creaking)
(comical noise)
(Moegi chuckles)
Really?
My first mission as a captain!
That's right.
Though I hate sending
you out so soon.
But this is so sudden, isn't it?
Hold on, did something
really bad happen?
Oh no.
The mission isn't
actually that difficult.
It's essentially just
a routine assignment,
although it is deep
in the mountains.
Easy enough.
It'll be a piece
of cake for you.
-(chuckles softly)
-Really?
Are you sure about that?
What does that mean?
If this mission is as
simple as you're suggesting
why did you have to come
all the way to my house
to tell me about it?
(Meogi sighs)
There's gotta be something
that's gonna make this
mission a real drag.
Okay, you're right.
You got me.
So today is Team 10's day off.
Both Cho-Cho and Inojin
are doing their own thing.
which means...
Which means that
this mission came
up suddenly and I couldn't
find anyone available.
And so I rounded up
any genin I could find
who were free.
An improvised team
just thrown together?
I'm sorry, but I
have a mission too,
and I don't have time
for anything more.
Except...
Here's a bit of advice
for my dear student.
Huh?
You have proven yourself to
be an exceptional Shinobi.
But you must always
remember this,
a team isn't just comprised
of four other versions of you.
Well, you're plenty smart
enough to figure this out
without me telling you.
But still...
If it comes down to it,
I could probably just
manage it myself,
but it'll be a drag.
(Opening Theme Music)
(singing in Japanese)
(birds chirping)
[Shikadai Voiceover] Wow.
I sure see what
Moegi Sensei meant.
She really wasn't kidding
about the whole "put
together in a rush" thing.
(suspenseful music)
We're still missing one
person, but I'm gonna start
I'll be your team
captain for this mission.
I know it's sudden, so
I'm counting on you.
Wow Shikadai.
How impressive.
So you're actually a chunin now?
I was just the one who
got picked, that's all.
Well, your grades
always were excellent
back when we were in the Academy
And just because of that,
you get to be captain?
Guess I gotta hand it
to you genius types.
Oh, what's this?
Are you seriously saying
that you're jealous,
just because someone younger
has surpassed you Iwabe?
(comical noise)
That's ridiculous.
You're just sucking up to
the captain, aren't you?
All right, what's that
supposed to mean, huh?
Hey, come on you
guys, calm down.
What do you think you're doing?
Damn it. This whole
thing is a real drag.
Hey, I'm here.
Sorry.
I'm later than I thought.
My bad, you know.
Look Boruto, being on time
is basic Shinobi stuff.
I got to say,
I kind of feel sorry for you.
It's your first mission
and you're stuck being
in charge of these guys.
-(Boruto laughs)
-(hand pats)
You're one of these
guys too, you know.
(birds chirping)
We're supposed to bring back
a flower called the Gekkouran
that grows up at the
top of this mountain.
That's the mission that
we've all been assigned.
-That's it?
-(Iwabe sighs)
I was wondering what
our mission was gonna be
since we were assigned
it so suddenly.
-(birds chirping)
-Seriously?
We were called up just
to take care of this.
Listen, this Gekkouran plant
will only flower once
every four years.
And just on the night
of the full moon.
But still, come on,
sending Shinobi out
just to pick some flowers?
How special can this
plant be anyway?
Apparently the Gekkouran
has medicinal properties.
So it fetches a high price.
The locals have been taking
care of this mountain
so it doesn't get ravaged
by people after this plant.
[Boruto] Oh, well at
least picking flowers
will be an easy task.
Don't relax yet.
We could be attacked by bandits
who are also after
the Gekkouran flower.
Yeah. Well there's nothing
I'd like better than that.
Wait a sec.
Do you even actually know
where this Gekkouran
flower grows?
I mean, if we don't have a map,
then how are we gonna find it?
Don't worry about that.
That's why we're bringing
along a guide with us.
-Hold on a guide?
-(squeaking noise)
-(dramatic noise)
-[Boruto] A pig?
[Wasabi] What's
a pig doing here?
-This is our guide, Tonsuke.
-(Tonsuke grunts)
The guide's a pig?
(lively rock music)
Apparently he has an
unbelievably
strong sense of smell.
They've tried other
pigs but for now,
Tonsuke here is the only one
who can reliably
find the Gekkouran.
(loud oinking)
Oh man.
what's the matter with that pig?
Looks like it's time
for me to feed him now.
Since there aren't
any other pigs
that can do what Tonsuke does,
he's been spoiled rotten.
Unless he's fed on
a regular schedule--
-(Tonsuke sniffing)
-(Tonsuke oinks)
he won't do what you say.
And you even have to give
him his special food.
-(bells chiming)
-(Tonsuke oinks)
I guess he's got
a refined palate.
(Tonsuke sighs)
I've never seen such a
stuck up pig in all my life.
We're gonna run out of time.
So let's just put a leash
on him and get going.
Hold on.
You need to know that bandits
might come after Tonsuke.
Recently, there was
another pig that was going
through training, and
some bandit stole it.
It's safer if one of us
carries him on their back.
-(Iwabe and Wasabi sighing)
-Fine, I'll do it.
We don't have the time
to stand around here.
(Tonsuke oinking)
(Wasabi laughs)
-Looks good on you, Iwabe.
-(Wasabi laughing)
C'mon, just get
this pig off of me.
Wolves can show up
around here at night.
So make sure that you're
being careful and stay alert.
Seriously?
Bringing a pig into
an area where wolves
live is pretty much like
packing them a lunch.
Don't you think?
Ah man, it must be nice
to take a little nap.
(wolf howling)
(Tonsuke oinking)
All right. One of you go
on ahead and investigate,
the rest we'll keep watch here
and we'll defend the rear.
Leave it to me.
I've been waiting.
Hey wait.
I said one of you.
Why are both of you going?
Just back off, would you?
Listen in Team Five, I'm the
one who always gets to go first.
Well, that's just
too bad for you then
because I always go
first on my team too.
(wolves growling)
Handling a pack of wolves
like this is nothing to me.
-(Wasabi roaring)
-(Wolves squealing)
-(feet thudding)
-(Tonsuke oinking)
Hey, come back pig.
Oh no, we have to go get
him, and quickly too.
This whole thing is
all your fault Wasabi.
What are you talking
about you have no clue.
There's no time
for this nonsense.
(upbeat rock music)
Where could the pig
have runoff too?
No way.
You don't think that
the wolves could've--
-(Tonsuke oinking)
That's cool.
I didn't know pigs
could climb trees.
This isn't the time
for any snide comments.
I've got to get him down quick.
(Tonsuke oinks)
Hey, quit squirming around.
-(Tonsuke oinks)
-(Shikadai chuckles)
Look at that.
A nose-shaped birthmark.
I guess it's no wonder you
have a keen sense of smell.
(Tonsuke oinks)
Hey, listen up Wasabi.
This is all because
of you, you know.
You scared that pig with
that weird jutsu of yours.
What do you mean?
It's your fault for
putting Tonsuke down
when you should've
been carrying him.
Cut it out, you two.
We're on a mission here.
Can't you guys just set all
this aside and get along.
Yeah, tell that to her.
Yeah, tell that to him.
You heard 'em captain.
(Shikadai sighs)
-(feet stomping)
-(Iwabe and Wasabi grunt)
Ah, c'mon.
Iwabe and Wasabi are
both so darn stubborn.
It's just who they are.
You'll never get
them to stop arguing.
I'm telling you, we should
just go ahead and cross.
Yeah, and I'm telling you
that we shouldn't you dummy.
C'mon, what is it now?
-(wind whooshing)
-I'm just saying,
it'll be faster if we cross
the suspension bridge,
but she won't listen to me.
-(Tonsuke oinking)
-Check it out.
Tonsuke is scared because of
all this, if we try to cross
what if we end up dropping in
halfway across or something?
That's why it makes more
sense to detour around.
No way, we're crossing.
No, we aren't.
It's a bad idea.
(Tonsuke oinking)
Enough.
I've decided, we're
crossing the bridge.
(Iwabe laughing)
(Wasabi sighing)
However, I'll carry
Tonsuke to the other side.
If I decide it's too risky,
we turn back and
go the other way.
Well, if you say so Shikadai.
Oh, man.
What a half-baked decision.
-(wind whooshing)
-(soft piano music)
Okay, good.
No issues with Tonsuke so far.
-(Iwabe and Wasabi grunt)
-(footbridge creaking)
Quit being so stubborn.
I'm totally right,
and you know it.
Look who's being stubborn now.
-(rope creaking)
-(Tonsuke oinking)
Hey, not here you idiots.
Can you stop fighting?
(loud smack)
-Whoa.
-(Tonsuke oinking)
Oh man, that's sure was closer
than I would have liked.
(Tonsuke oinking)
Okay.
For now, you take
the lead Wasabi.
And Iwabe, you bring up the
rear and guard our back.
What? But how come?
For the rest of this mission,
You too are forbidden from
talking to each other.
I'm sorry for doing this,
but I'm giving you an
order as your captain.
What was that?
Yes sir, I understand.
We should be
getting pretty close
to the area where the
Gekkouran grows, but...
(Tonsuke snores)
Someone's coming.
-(bandits laughing)
-(dramatic music)
I guess that we've
been found out.
Gotta hand it to
your leaf Shinobi.
But now you're going to hand
that little pig over to us.
They're the bandits
you were talking about.
Perfect. You saved us the
trouble of looking for you.
Now we can get all
of you at once.
Hey, stay in formation guys.
We have to stay together
or they'll go for Tonsuke.
Hey, just a thought,
but maybe they can't
communicate well
'cause you ordered them
not to talk to each other.
Damn it.
You have to adapt
to every situation.
I have no choice.
Hey Shikadai, above you.
-(loud boom)
-(Tonsuke oinking)
Are you all right, Shikadai?
I'm fine. Go after Tonsuke.
Okay.
Well that was easy.
We chased off all
of the bandits.
Where's Tonsuke?
You can stop worrying guys.
I found him.
(pig oinks)
Oh boy, I guess that
we messed up yet again.
Listen, I'll tell you what,
to make up for it, we'll carry
Tonsuke from here on out.
No way.
I'm going to carry Tonsuke.
Shikadai?
I just can't leave them
in your hands anymore.
What does that mean?
This mission supposed
to be simple,
but everything's messing up.
Yeah, but...
Look, it's going
to be way easier
if I just finished this
mission all by myself
Hold up. You don't have to
say it like that, do you?
Hey, are you trying to tell us
that you think we'd only
get in the way or something?
Calm down you guys,
I'm sure that Shikadai
didn't mean it like that.
You can take it any
way that you'd like to,
but I'm going to make sure
that this mission is a success.
You keep on saying mission
this, mission that.
But back there we
couldn't communicate
because of your orders.
Yeah, but that's just
because the two of you
kept arguing all the time.
But by trying to
keep us from arguing,
all that you did was end
up causing more problems.
Oh, shut up.
This is exactly
why I'm saying that
I'm just gonna finish
this mission alone.
You said it, not me.
From here on out,
you're on your own.
You got that?
Fine, sounds great.
Hey wait, don't go
off by yourself.
-(footsteps thudding)
-(dramatic music)
Damn it.
Are you sure about this?
Should we really leave them?
Whatever, the mission
is almost completed.
Tonsuke should start reacting
to the flower scent
anytime now, but--
Yeah, you know, he's been
awfully quiet lately.
(pig oinking)
Oh, wow. Is this it?
Did you finally find
the Gekkouran, Tonsuke.
(pig sighing)
C'mon, seriously?
You're just hungry.
It can't be helped.
I'll feed you.
I guess we didn't realize
just how hungry you were.
[Shikadai Voiceover]
That's weird.
I thought Tonsuke only
ate that special food.
(pig whining)
-No birthmark?
-(dramatic music)
Where are you going?
That pig isn't Tonsuke.
I'm guessing that during that
fight against the bandits,
he got switched.
What, really?
We've got to find
them, and fast.
-(footsteps thudding)
-(bandits granting)
(Tonsuke oinking)
I knew you guys were
behind all this.
(laughs) And we're also
gonna keep Tonsuke.
We were starting
to get desperate,
'cause the pig that we stole
before was totally useless.
-Later.
-(bandits laughing)
It looks like the
ravine isn't that deep.
And I think we can
make that jump.
Well, let's go.
(Shikadai groans)
Shikadai, what's going
on with your leg.
(Shikadai groans)
You think it was okay for
us to let them go on alone.
(scoffs) The captain said
he'd do it by himself,
didn't he?
He told us that we
just get in the way.
Well, yeah, that's true, but...
(dramatic noise)
You think it's Shikadai's?
So does this mean he hid that
he got injured earlier then?
That little idiot.
-(Boruto grunts)
-(Boruto's Clone shrieks)
(magical noise)
(sighs) That's no good.
I thought we might
be able to grab
onto the other side, but--
If we don't cross
the ravine soon
then we aren't going
to make it in time
for the Gekkouran bloom
when the moon rises.
There's no choice.
I have to jump it.
You're seriously gonna try that?
You know, sometimes I wish
I could use Shadow Clones
like you do.
Wait, what?
Where did that come from?
It's nothing.
I'm just wishing that
at times like these,
there were a few
more of me around
Right?
Well listen.
There's no doubt that
you're awesome, Shikadai..
but you can't do everything,
even if there was a whole bunch
of you around, you know.
-(slow emotional music)
-Take this situation.
If Iwabe were here,
he could have made a
bridge to the other side.
I guess that I still have
a whole lot to learn.
I've been acting
too full of myself.
But Shikadai?
We barely have any time
left until Moonrise.
The two of us are going
to jump over the ravine.
But how, I mean your leg?
Yeah, I know.
But still I got
myself into this mess,
and I'm going to get
myself out of it too.
Yeah, but that's--
-(loud rumbling)
-(upbeat folk music)
We found out that
a certain someone
was hiding an injury
from all of us.
Come on, we gotta hurry.
Listen, you guys, earlier...
I thought we didn't
have much time.
So we shouldn't waste more
with some lame chit-chat.
(Iwabe chuckles)
Yeah, but Iwabe--
We're sorry about what
happened to you Shikadai.
But how do you
plan on finding the
bandits out here on
this big mountain?
It's too rocky to track them.
Don't worry.
I'm pretty sure that Tonsuke
will send us his signal soon.
A signal?
(lively rock music)
-(Tonsuke oinking)
-What the hell, what's wrong?
(Tonsuke oinking)
It's been a long time
spent a long time
since I last gave Tonsuke
any of a special food.
He's bound to be getting hungry
and fussy right around now.
I'm counting on you Wasabi.
(chuckles) Leave it to me.
(distant oinks)
I can hear him.
They're a little ways
off to the Northwest.
We can catch up to
them if we hurry.
Wasabi jutsu enables her
to emulate a cat's ability
to hear sounds we
normally can't hear.
Which means with her assistance.
We can find Tonsuke.
I really gotta hand
it to you Shikadai.
They just changed direction.
Up here, turn right.
But what are we gonna do?
I mean if they've got Tonsuke,
and it'll be dangerous to
just rush in recklessly.
You don't have to
worry about that,
I've got a plan in mind.
We'll have to pay
them back properly
for what they did after all.
-(blades whizzing)
-(soft thuds)
You won't get away, you know.
(bandits sighing)
Come on.
Why can't you find
the Gekkouran yet?
You useless pig.
(Tonsuke oinking)
Oh, did you actually find some?
So the get Gekkouran
in there, huh?
Yes, I did it.
Once I can sell this
stuff on the black market,
I'm going to be super rich.
(Bandit Boss chuckling)
This is pig feed?
(soft rumbling)
No damn it!
Come back.
(comical noise)
You're finished.
You can't get to
Tonsuke anymore.
-Why, you little...
-(upbeat folk music)
I knew the Tonsuke was
starting to get hungry.
So I placed some of his special
food further down your path.
He was bound to
notice and go for it.
That was a solid idea, captain.
There's no way I'm going
to let you guys catch me.
-(magical noise)
-(Bandit grunts)
Look, just give it up.
I've already got
you all figured out.
(Tonsuke oinking)
All right, that's
the gekkouran, huh!
Wow, that's one
beautiful flower.
Yeah. I actually feel kind of
sorry that we have to pick it.
Well, if we didn't, it just
wither up in time anyway.
Besides, this flower
is going to be able
to help a lot of people.
Our mission is finally complete.
What? A test?
Yes, it was to determine if
you're truly ready and capable
of being a captain.
That's why we assigned
you people other
than your usual teammates.
Dammit, Was kinda mean
Mogei Sensei, you know that?
Regardless, the mission
itself was still a real one.
So tell me all about it.
You guys, how did it
go for you out there?
(lively rock music)
I mean, we succeeded at it.
Didn't we?
-Yeah
-That's right.
Okay, great.
That's what I like to hear.
I guess that means I can
assign Team 10
to you from time to
time, Shikadai.
What's up with that?
Planning to slack
off Moegi Sensei?
Listen, I'll have you know
that jonin are very busy.
So, Shikadai, how do you feel
your first mission
as team captain went?
Honestly, I realized I have
a long way to go as a captain
and that managing people...
is a real drag.
(Closing Theme Music)
(singing in Japanese)
(dramatic music)
They finally got
more X Cards in!
(Boruto squeals) I'm so excited!
Open them up quick, Boruto!
What's that?
Just cards?
These aren't just
regular old cards.
They're extreme Ninja
cards, ex cards, for short.
It is a trading card game
featuring famous Shinobi
from throughout history.
Next time on Boruto
Naruto Next Generations,
X cards, proxy war.
Please let me open up a
super special, rare card.
(Closing Theme Music)